= Devisable

Start your rails project off right with Devisable. 

It is a quick and easy generator that sets up devise,cancan and/or oauth on your site.  It:

* Supports facebook and twitter oauth.
* Uses cancan permissions
* Has a user and roles tool so you can change permissions inside a gui
* Supports all devise options
* Contains rspec and cucumber test options
* Can be added to existing project that don't already have devise.

== Installation

Devisable supports rails 3 with ruby >= 1.9.2.  

  gem install devisable
  
  Then Add devisable to your gemfile

  rails generate devisable --help
  
== Usage

It is always good practice to start a new branch in your repo before making major updates like when using devisable.

Use --help to see a list of complete options
  
Runtime Options:
  
  -c, [--config]    # Configuration Options for devise. ie 1,2,3,7,11 (see Devise options below)
  -t, [--twitteroauth]    # Twitter Oauth key and secret seperated by , (comma). ie 123lk23jjsdfklsd,2l4kljknsdjlsdf
  -o, [--facebookoauth]    # Facebook Oauth key, secret and client_id seperated by , (comma). ie 123lk23jjsdfklsd,2l4kljknsdjlsdf,102092932
  -g, [--gems]      # Version of the gems you want to use seperated by Devise,Warden,Cancan. ie 1.1.5,0.1.1,1.5.1  
  -d, [--denied]        # add this option if you want to add a customized permission denied message
  -e, [--extra]         # Extra fields added to the user model. ie first_name:string,last_name:string  
  -n, [--new]           # If the project is brand new.  Will remove the index.html and add the root route
  -s, [--sudo]          # Use sudo for the gem install commands (for non rvm/osx users)
  -u, [--url]           # Rool url for your app in development
  -C, [--cucumber]      # Include cucumber tests, currently does not support oauth
  
Devise Options (used with the -c command)

  1.  Database Authenticatable: encrypts and stores a password in the database to validate the authenticity of an user while signing in. The authentication can be done both through POST requests or HTTP Basic Authentication.
  2.  Token Authenticatable: signs in an user based on an authentication token (also known as “single access token”). The token can be given both through query string or HTTP Basic Authentication.
  3.  Oauthable: adds OAuth2 support
  4.  Confirmable: sends emails with confirmation instructions and verifies whether an account is already confirmed during sign in.
  5.  Recoverable: resets the user password and sends reset instructions.
  6.  Registerable: handles signing up users through a registration process, also allowing them to edit and destroy their account.
  7.  Rememberable: manages generating and clearing a token for remembering the user from a saved cookie.
  8.  Trackable: tracks sign in count, timestamps and IP address.
  9.  Timeoutable: expires sessions that have no activity in a specified period of time.
  10. Validatable: provides validations of email and password. It’s optional and can be customized, so you’re able to define your own validations.
  11. Lockable: locks an account after a specified number of failed sign-in attempts. Can unlock via email or after a specified time period.
  
To just setup Basic authentication with devisable

  rails generate devisable
  
  This will setup with the devise options 1,4,5,7,8,10

Twitter Oauth - Note you will need to setup your app in twitter before running this

  rails generate devisable -c 2,3 -t <key>,<secret> -u <url_to_your_project>

  rails generate devisable -c 2,3 -t asdf489fhkbnajbsdf,2uh3uh383493hkjdf -u http://dev.yoururl.com
  
Facebook Oauth

  rails generate devisable -c 2,3 -o <key>,<secret>,<app_id> -u <url_to_your_project>
  
  rails generate devisable -c 2,3 -o asdf489fhkbnajbsdf,2uh3uh383493hkjdf,10100101001 -u http://dev.yoururl.com
  
All three (normal authentication,twitter_oauth, facebook_oauth)

  rails generate devisable -c 1,2,3,5,6,7,8 -t asdf489fhkbnajbsdf,2uh3uh383493hkjdf -o asdf489fhkbnajbsdf,2uh3uh383493hkjdf,10100101001 -u http://dev.yoururl.com
  
Starting a project - Use the -n option

  rails generate devisable -c 1,2,3,5,6,7,8 -t asdf489fhkbnajbsdf,2uh3uh383493hkjdf -o asdf489fhkbnajbsdf,2uh3uh383493hkjdf,10100101001 -n -u http://dev.yoururl.com
  
Add Cucumber tests - use the -C option
  
  rails generate devisable -c 1,2,3,5,6,7,8 -t asdf489fhkbnajbsdf,2uh3uh383493hkjdf -o asdf489fhkbnajbsdf,2uh3uh383493hkjdf,10100101001 -n -C -u http://dev.yoururl.com 

Add extra fields to the user model

  rails generate devisable -e first_name:string,last_name:string

== Contributing to devisable
 
* Check out the latest master to make sure the feature hasn't been implemented or the bug hasn't been fixed yet
* Check out the issue tracker to make sure someone already hasn't requested it and/or contributed it
* Fork the project
* Start a feature/bugfix branch
* Commit and push until you are happy with your contribution
* Make sure to add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a future version unintentionally.
* Please try not to mess with the Rakefile, version, or history. If you want to have your own version, or is otherwise necessary, that is fine, but please isolate to its own commit so I can cherry-pick around it.

== TODOS

* Be able to tie your facebook, twitter, and normal authentication options to each other.
* Support for haml and sass instead of erb
* Add Facebook javascript autologin option

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Scott. See LICENSE.txt for
further details.

